Perhaps food had appeared whe re at the last incursion there had been none;
bird dro ppings, insects perhaps, any of the strewn detritus of landward life.
Like a myriad of tiny teeth in a saw , the transparencies came scavenging
over the beach.
This was fascinating to Henry . He poked about with a bit of stick, that
itself wa s wave- worn and whitened and a vagrant, and tried to control the
motions of the scavengers. He made little runnels that the tide filled and
tried to crowd them with creatures. He became absorbed beyond mere
happiness as he felt himself exercising control over living things. He talked
to them, ur ging them, ordering them. Driven back by the tide, his footprints
became bays in which they were trapped and gave him the illusion of
mastery . He squatted on his ham s at the water's edge, bowed, with a shock
of h air f alling over his forehead and past his eyes, and the afternoon sun
emptied down invisible arrows.
Roger waited too. At first he had  hidden behind a great palm; but Henry's
absorption with the transparencies was so obvious that at last h e stood out
in full view . He looked along the beach. Percival had gone of f, crying, and
Johnny was left in triumphant possession of the castles, H e sat there,
crooning to himself and throwi ng sand at an imaginary Perciv al. Beyond
him, Ro ger could see the platfo rm and the glints of spray where Ralph and
Simon and Piggy and Maurice were diving in the pool. He listened carefully
but could only just hear them.
A sudden breeze shook the fring e of palm trees, so that the fronds tossed
and flutt ered. Si xty feet above R oger , several nuts, fibrous lumps as big as
rugby ba lls, were loosed from their stems. They fell about him w ith a series
of hard thumps and he was not touched. Roger did not consider his escape,
but looked from the nuts to Henry and back again.
The subs oil bene ath the palm tre es was a raised beach, and generations of
palms had worked loose in thi s the stones that had lain on t he sands of
another shore. Roger stooped, picked up a stone, aimed, and threw it at
Henry― threw it to miss. Th e stone, that token of preposterous time,
bounced five yards to Henry's right and fell in the water . Roge r gathered a
handful of stones and began to  throw them. Y et there was a space round
Henry , p erhaps six yards in dia meter , into which he dare not throw . Here,