Piggy leaned down to him.
"What's yer name?"
"Johnny ."
Piggy muttered the name to himself and then shouted it to Ralph, who
was not interested because he w as still blowing. His face was dark with the
violent p leasure of making this s tupendous noise, and his heart was making
the stretched shirt shake. The shouting in the forest was nearer .
Signs of  life were visible now o n the beach. The sand, tremblin g beneath
the heat  haze, concealed many  figures in its miles of length; boys were
making their way toward the platform through the hot, dumb sand. Three
small ch ildren, no older than J ohnny , appeared from startlingly close at
hand, where they had been gor ging fruit in the forest. A dark little boy , not
much younger than Piggy , parted a tangle of under growth, walked on to the
platform, and smiled cheerfull y at everybody . More and mo re of them
came. T aking th eir cue from th e innocent Johnny , they sat d own on the
fallen palm trunks and waited. Ralph continued to blow short, penetrating
blasts. Piggy moved among th e crowd, asking names and f rowning to
remember them . The children gave him the same simple obe dience that
they had given to the men with megaphones. Some were naked and carrying
their clothes; others half-naked, or more or less dressed, in scho ol uniforms,
grey , blue, fawn, jacketed, or jerseyed. There were badges, mottoes even,
stripes of color in stockings and  pullovers. Their heads clustered above the
trunks in  the green shade; heads brown, fair , black, chestnut, sandy , mouse-
colored; heads muttering, whisp ering, heads full of eyes that watched Ralph
and speculated. Something was being done.
The chi ldren w ho came along the beach, singly or in twos, leapt into
visibility when they crossed the line from heat haze to nearer sand. Here,
the e ye was firs t attracted to a black, bat-like creature that da nced on the
sand, and only later perceived the body above it. The bat was the child's
shadow , shrunk by the vertical sun to a patch between the hurrying feet.
Even wh ile he blew , Ralph noti ced the last pair of bodies that reached the
platform above a fluttering patch of black. The two boys, bullet-headed and
with hai r like tow , flung themselves down and lay grinning and panting at