sweat made glistening streaks on his dirty body . The cries were far now , and
faint.
At last he found what seemed to  him the right place, though the decision
was des perate. Here, bushes and a wild tangle of creeper made a mat that
kept out all the light of the sun. Beneath it was a space, perhaps a foot high,
though it was pierced everyw here by parallel and rising stems. If you
wormed into the middle of that you would be five yards from th e edge, and
hidden, unless the savage chose to lie down and look for you; and even
then, yo u would be in darkness― and if the worst happened and he saw you,
then you had a chance to burst out at him, fling the whole line out of step
and double back.
Cautiously , his stick trailing behind him, Ralph wormed between the
rising stems. When he reached the middle of the mat he lay and listened.
The fire  was a big one and the drum-roll that he had thought was left so
far behind was nearer . Couldn't a fire outrun a galloping horse? He could
see t he s un-splashed ground ove r an area of perhaps fifty yards from where
he lay , and as he  watched, the sunlight in every patch blinked a t him. This
was so like the curtain that fl apped in his brain that for a moment he
thought the blinking was inside him. But then the patches blinked more
rapidly , dulled and went out, so that he saw that a great heavine ss of smoke
lay between the island and the sun.
If an yone peered under the bushes and chanced to glimpse human flesh it
might be  Samneric who would pretend not to see and say noth ing. He laid
his cheek against the chocolate- colored earth, licked his dry lips  and closed
his e yes. Under the thicket, the e arth was vibrating very slightly; or perhaps
there wa s a sound beneath the obvious thunder of the fire an d scribbled
ululations that was too low to hear .
Someone cried out. Ralph jerke d his cheek of f the earth and lo oked into
the dulled light. They must be n ear now , he thought, and his chest began to
thump. Hide, break the line, clim b a tree―which was the best after all? The
trouble was you only had one chance.