lagoon. Beyond was a short stretch of sand and then the edge of the water .
A fire burned on  the rock and fat dripped from the roasting pigm eat into the
invisible flames. All the boys of the island, except Piggy , Ralph, Simon, and
the two tending  the pig, were grouped on the turf. They were laughing,
singing, lying, squatting, or sta nding on the grass, holding food in their
hands. B ut to judge by the greasy faces, the meat eating was almost done;
and some held coconut shells in their hands and were drinking from them.
Before t he party  had started a great log had been dragged into the center of
the l awn and Jack, painted and garlanded, sat there like an idol.  There were
piles of meat on green leaves ne ar him, and fruit, and coconut shells full of
drink.
Piggy and Ralph came to the ed ge of the grassy platform; and the boys,
as they noticed them, fell silent one by one till only the boy n ext to Jack
was talk ing. The n the silence in truded even there and Jack turn ed where he
sat. For a time he looked at them and the crackle of the fire was the loudest
noise ov er the droning of the re ef. Ralph looked away; and Sa m, thinking
that Ralph had turned to him accusingly , put down his gnawed bone with a
nervous giggle. Ralph took an uncertain step, pointed to a palm tree, and
whispered something inaudible to Piggy; and they both giggle d like Sam.
Lifting h is feet high out of the s and, Ralph started to stroll past.  Piggy tried
to whistle.
At this moment the boys who were cooking at the fire suddenly hauled
of f a great chun k of meat and ran with it toward the grass. Th ey bumped
Piggy , w ho was  burnt, and yelle d and danced. Immediately , Ralph and the
crowd o f boys were united and relieved by a storm of laughter . Piggy once
more wa s the center of social derision so that everyone felt c heerful and
normal.
Jack stood up and waved his spear .
"T ake them some meat."
The boys with the spit gave Ralph and Piggy each a succulent chunk.
They to ok the gift, dribbling. So they stood and ate beneath a sky of
thunderous brass that rang with the storm-coming.