the o pen sea was dark blue. W ithin the irregular arc of coral the  lagoon was
still as a mountain lake―blue of all shades and shadowy green and purple.
The bea ch between the palm ter race and the water was a thin st ick, endless
apparently , for to Ralph's left the perspectives of palm and beach and water
drew to a point at infinity; and always, almost visible, was the heat.
He jumped down from the terrace. The sand was thick over his black
shoes and the he at hit him. He became conscious of the weigh t of clothes,
kicked h is shoe s of f fiercely an d ripped of f each stocking wit h its elastic
garter in a singl e movement. Then he leapt back on the terrace, pulled of f
his s hirt, and stood there among  the skull-like coconuts with gre en shadows
from the  palms and the forest sliding over his skin. He undid the snake-
clasp of  his belt, lugged of f his shorts and pants, and stood t here naked,
looking at the dazzling beach and the water .
He was old enough, twelve ye ars and a few months, to have lost the
prominent tummy of childhood and not yet old enough for adolescence to
have made him awkward. Y ou could see now that he might make a boxer ,
as far as width and heaviness of shoulders went, but there was a mildness
about his mouth and eyes that proclaimed no devil. He patted the palm
trunk so ftly , and , forced at last to believe in the reality of the isl and laughed
delightedly agai n and stood on his head. He turned neatly on to his feet,
jumped down to the beach, kne lt and swept a double armful of sand into a
pile agai nst his chest. Then he s at back and looked at the water with bright,
excited eyes.
"Ralph―"
The fat boy lowered himself over the terrace and sat down carefully ,
using the edge as a seat.
"I'm sorry I been such a time. Them fruit―"
He wipe d his glasses and adjusted them on his button nose. T he frame
had made a dee p, pink "V" on the bridge. He looked critically  at Ralph's
golden body and then down at his own clothes. He laid a hand on the end of
a zipper that extended down his chest.