CHAPTER FOUR
     
Painted Faces and Long Hair
     
The first rhythm that they became used to was the slow swing from dawn to
quick dusk. They accepted the pleasures of morning, the brig ht sun, the
whelming sea and sweet air , as a time when play was good and life so full
that hop e was not necessary an d therefore for gotten. T oward noon, as the
floods of light fell more nearly to the perpendicular , the stark c olors of the
morning were smoothed in pearl and opalescence; and the heat―as though
the impe nding sun's height gave it momentum―became a blow that they
ducked, running to the shade and lying there, perhaps even sleeping.
Strange things happened at midday . The glittering sea rose up, moved
apart in planes of blatant impossibility; the coral reef and the few stunted
palms that clung to the more elevated parts would float up i nto the sky ,
would quiver , be plucked apart, run like raindrops on a wire or be repeated
as in an odd succession of mirrors. Sometimes land loomed where there was
no l and and fli cked out like a bubble as the children watc hed. Piggy
discounted all this learnedly as a "mirage"; and since no boy could reach
even the  reef over the stretch o f water where the snapping sha rks waited,
they grew accustomed to these mysteries and ignored them, just as they
ignored the miraculous, throbbing stars. At midday the illusions mer ged
into the sky and there the sun gazed down like an angry eye. T hen, at the
end of the afternoon; the mirage subsided and the horizon became level and
blue and  clipped  as the sun declined. That was another time of c omparative
coolness but menaced by the coming of the dark. When the sun sank,
darkness dropped on the island like an extinguisher and soon the shelters
were full of restlessness, under the remote stars.
Nevertheless, th e northern European tradition of work, play , and food
right thr ough the  day , made it possible for them to adjust themselves wholly
to th is new rhyth m. The littlun P ercival had early crawled into a shelter and