sun was gone, r olling noisily to rest among dry leaves. At that he began to
trot.
The bea ch near the bathing pool was dotted with groups of boy s waiting
for the assembly . They made way for him silently , conscious of his grim
mood and the fault at the fire.
The place of assembly in which he stood was roughly a triangle; but
irregular and sketchy , like everything they made. First there was the log on
which h e himse lf sat; a dead tree that must have been quite ex ceptionally
big for the platform. Perhaps one of those legendary storms of the Pacific
had shifted it here. This palm trunk lay parallel to the beach, so that when
Ralph sat he faced the island but to the boys was a darkish figure against the
shimmer of the lagoon. The two  sides of the triangle of which the log was
base were less e venly defined. On the right was a log polished by restless
seats along the top, but not so l ar ge as the chief's and not so c omfortable.
On the left wer e four small log s, one of them―the farthest―lamentably
springy . Assemb ly after assembly had broken up in laughter wh en someone
had leaned too f ar back and the  log had whipped and thrown half a dozen
boys backwards into the grass. Y et now , he saw , no one h ad had the
wit―not himself nor Jack, nor Piggy―to bring a stone and  wedge the
thing. S o they would continue enduring the ill-balanced twister , because,
because.... Again he lost himself in deep waters.
Grass w as worn away in front of each trunk but grew tall and untrodden
in the center of the triangle. Th en, at the apex, the grass was thick again
because no one sat there. All round the place of assembly the grey trunks
rose, stra ight or leaning, and supported the low roof of leaves. O n two sides
was the beach; behind, the lagoon; in front, the darkness of the island.
Ralph turned to the chief's seat.  They had never had an assembly as late
before. That was why the place looked so dif ferent. Normally th e underside
of th e green roof was lit by a tangle of golden reflections, and their faces
were lit upside down―like, thought Ralph, when you hold an electric torch
in your hands. But now the sun was slanting in at one side,  so that the
shadows were where they ought to be.