one of them was an obvious subject for a shower , and yet―hai r , much too
long, tangled here and there, knotted round a dead leaf or a twig; faces
cleaned fairly well by the proce ss of eating and sweating but marked in the
less acce ssible a ngles with a kin d of shadow; clothes, worn aw ay , stif f like
his own with sweat, put on, not  for decorum or comfort but out of custom;
the skin of the body , scurfy with brine― He discovered with a little fall of
the heart that th ese were the con ditions he took as normal now and that he
did not mind. He sighed and pushed away the stalk from wh ich he had
stripped the fruit. Already the  hunters were stealing away to do their
business in the woods or down by the rocks. He turned and looked out to
sea.
Here, on the oth er side of the island, the view was utterly dif fe rent. The
filmy enchantments of mirage could not endure the cold ocea n water and
the horizon was hard, clipped blue. Ralph wandered down to  the rocks.
Down here, almost on a level with the sea, you could follow with your eye
the ceaseless, bulging passage of the deep sea waves. They were miles
wide, ap parently not breakers or the banked ridges of shallow water . They
traveled the length of the island with an air of disregarding it and being set
on other  busines s; they were less a progress than a momentous rise and fall
of the whole ocean. Now the se a would suck down, making c ascades and
waterfalls of retreating water , w ould sink past the rocks and plaster down
the seaw eed lik e shining hair: then, pausing, gather and rise with a roar ,
irresistibly swelling over point and outcrop, climbing the little clif f, sending
at last an arm of  surf up a gully to end a yard or so from him in fingers of
spray .
W ave af ter wave , Ralph followed the rise and fall until something of the
remoteness of the sea numbed h is brain. Then gradually the almost infinite
size of this water forced itself on his attention. This was the divider , the
barrier . On the other side of th e island, swathed at midday w ith mirage,
defended by the shield of the qu iet lagoon, one might dream of  rescue; but
here, faced by th e brute obtuseness of the ocean, the miles of d ivision, one
was clamped down, one was helpless, one was condemned, one was―
Simon was speaking almost in  his ear . Ralph found that he had rock
painfully grippe d in both hands , found his body arched, the muscles of his
neck stif f, his mouth strained open.