W ith some positive action before them, a little of the tension died. Ralph
said no more, di d nothing, stood looking down at the ashes round his feet.
Jack was loud and active. He gave orders, sang, whistled, threw remarks at
the silent Ralph―remarks that did not need an answer , and therefore could
not invit e a snub; and still Ralp h was silent. No one, not even Jack, would
ask him to move and in the end they had to build the fire three yards away
and in a place not really as convenient.
So Ralp h asserted his chieftainship and could not have chosen a better
way if he had thought for days. Against this weapon, so indefinable and so
ef fective, Jack was powerless an d raged without knowing why . By the time
the pile was built, they were on dif ferent sides of a high barrier .
When th ey had dealt with the fir e another crisis arose. Jack had no means
of lighti ng it. Then to his surpris e, Ralph went to Piggy and took the glasses
from him. Not e ven Ralph knew how a link between him and Jack had been
snapped and fastened elsewhere.
"I'll bring 'em back."
"I'll come too."
Piggy stood behind him, islanded in a sea of meaningless color , while
Ralph kn elt and focused the glossy spot. Instantly the fire was a light, Piggy
held out his hands and grabbed the glasses back.
Before these fantastically attract ive flowers of violet and red and yellow ,
unkindness melt ed away . They became a circle of boys round a camp fire
and even Piggy and Ralph were half-drawn in. Soon some of the boys were
rushing down the slope for more wood while Jack hacked the pig. They
tried holding the whole carcass on a stake over the fire, but the stake burnt
more qu ickly than the pig roaste d. In the end they skewered bits of meat on
branches and held them in the flames: and even then almost as much boy
was roasted as meat.
Ralph's mouth watered. He meant to refuse meat, but his past diet of fruit
and nuts, with an odd crab or fish, gave him too little res istance. He
accepted a piece of halfraw meat and gnawed it like a wolf.