CHAPTER SIX
     
Beast fr om Air
     
There w as no light left save th at of the stars. When they had understood
what made this ghostly noise and Percival was quiet again,  Ralph and
Simon picked him up unhandily and carried him to a shelter . Piggy hung
about near for a ll his brave words, and the three bigger boys w ent together
to the next shelter . They lay re stlessly and noisily among the dry leaves,
watching the patch of stars t hat was the opening toward the lagoon.
Sometimes a littlun cried out fro m the other shelters and once a bigun spoke
in the dark. Then they too fell asleep.
A sliver  of moon rose over the horizon, hardly lar ge enough to make a
path of light even when it sat rig ht down on the water; but there were other
lights in the sky , that moved fast, winked, or went out, though not even a
faint pop ping came down from the battle fought at ten miles' h eight. But a
sign cam e down from the world  of grownups, though at the time there was
no child awake to read it. There was a sudden bright explosion and
corkscrew trail across the sky; then darkness again and stars. There was a
speck above the island, a figur e dropping swiftly beneath a p arachute, a
figure that hung with dangling limbs. The changing winds of various
altitudes took the figure where they would. Then, three miles up, the wind
steadied and bore it in a descen ding curve round the sky and swept it in a
great sla nt acros s the reef and the lagoon toward the mountain . The figure
fell and crumpled among the blue flowers of the mountain-sid e, but now
there was a gen tle breeze at this height too and the parachute flopped and
banged and pulled. So the figure, with feet that dragged behind it, slid up
the mountain. Y ard by yard, puf f by puf f, the breeze hauled the figure
through the blue flowers, ove r the boulders and red stones , till it lay
huddled among the shattered rocks of the mountain-top. Here the breeze
was fitful and allowed the strings of the parachute to tangle and festoon;
and the figure sat, its helmeted head between its knees, held by a