Again he fell int o that strange m ood of speculation that was so foreign to
him. If faces were dif ferent when lit from above or below―what was a
face? What was anything?
Ralph moved impatiently . The trouble was, if you were a chief you had to
think, you had to  be wise. And then the occasion slipped by so that you had
to grab at a decision. This made you think; because thought was a valuable
thing, that got results....
Only , de cided Ralph as he faced the chief's seat, I can't think.  Not like
Piggy .
Once m ore that evening Ralph had to adjust his values. Piggy could
think. He could go step by step  inside that fat head of his, only Piggy was
no c hief. But P iggy , for all his  ludicrous body , had brains. Ralph was a
specialist in thought now , and could recognize thought in another .
The sun in his eyes reminded him how time was passing, so he took the
conch down from the tree and examined the surface. Exposure to the air had
bleached the yellow and pink to  near -white, and transparency . Ralph felt a
kind of af fection ate reverence for the conch, even though he had fished the
thing out of the lagoon himself. He faced the place of assembly and put the
conch to his lips.
The others were waiting for this and came straight away . Those who were
aware that a ship had passed the island while the fire was out were subdued
by the thought of Ralph's anger; while those, including the littluns who did
not kno w , were  impressed by the general air of solemnity . The place of
assembly filled quickly; Jack, Simon, Maurice, most of the hunters, on
Ralph's right; the rest on the l eft, under the sun. Piggy came and stood
outside the triangle. This indica ted that he wished to listen, but would not
speak; and Piggy intended it as a gesture of disapproval.
"The thing is: we need an assembly ."
No one said an ything but the faces turned to Ralph were in tent. He
flourished the conch. He had learnt as a practical business that fundamental
statements like this had to b e said at least twice, befor e everyone