Henry was a bit  of a leader this afternoon, because the other two were
Percival and Johnny , the smalle st boys on the island. Percival was mouse-
colored and had not been very attractive even to his mother; Johnny was
well built, with fair hair and a natural belligerence. Just now h e was being
obedient because he was interested; and the three children, kne eling in the
sand, were at peace.
Roger an d Maur ice came out of  the forest. They were relieved from duty
at the fire and had come down for a swim. Roger led the way straight
through the castles, kicking them over , burying the flowers, scattering the
chosen s tones. Maurice followed, laughing, and added to the destruction.
The three littluns paused in their game and looked up. As it happened, the
particular marks  in which they  were interested had not been touched, so
they ma de no protest. Only Percival began to whimper with an eyeful of
sand an d Maurice hurried away . In his other life Maurice had received
chastisement for filling a younger eye with sand. Now , though there was no
parent to  let fall a heavy hand, M aurice still felt the unease of wrongdoing.
At t he back of his mind formed the uncertain outlines of an excuse. He
muttered something about a swim and broke into a trot.
Roger remained, watching the littluns. He was not noticeably darker than
when he had dropped in, but the shock of black hair , down his n ape and low
on h is fo rehead, seemed to suit his gloomy face and made what had seemed
at first an unsociable remoteness into something forbidding. Percival
finished his whimper and went  on playing, for the tears had washed the
sand aw ay . Johnny watched him with china-blue eyes; then be gan to fling
up sand in a shower , and presently Percival was crying again.
When H enry tir ed of his play and wandered of f along the beach, Roger
followed him, keeping beneath the palms and drifting casually in the same
direction. Henry  walked at a distance from the palms and the sh ade because
he was too young to keep himse lf out of the sun. He went down the beach
and busi ed hims elf at the water's edge. The great Pacific tide was coming in
and eve ry few seconds the re latively still water of the lagoon heaved
forwards an inch. There were cr eatures that lived in this last fling of the sea,
tiny tran sparencies that came questing in with the water over the hot, dry
sand. W ith impalpable or gans  of sense they examined this new field.