crying o ut again st the abominable noise something about a body  on the hill.
The beast struggled forward, broke the ring and fell over the steep edge of
the rock  to the sand by the wate r . At once the crowd sur ged after it, poured
down the rock, leapt on to the b east, screamed, struck, bit, tore. There were
no words, and no movements but the tearing of teeth and claws.
Then the  clouds  opened and let down the rain like a waterfall. The water
bounded from the mountain-top , tore leaves and branches from the trees,
poured like a cold shower over the struggling heap on the sand. Presently
the heap  broke up and figures st aggered away . Only the beast lay  still, a few
yards from the sea. Even in the rain they could see how small a beast it was;
and already its blood was staining the sand.
Now a great wind blew the rain  sideways, cascading the water from the
forest trees. On the mountain-top the parachute filled and moved ; the figure
slid, ros e to its feet, spun, sway ed down through a vastness of wet air and
trod with ungainly feet the tops of the high trees; falling, still falling, it sank
toward the beach and the boys  rushed screaming into the darkness. The
parachute took the figure forward, furrowing the lagoon, and bumped it
over the reef and out to sea.
T oward midnigh t the rain ceased  and the clouds drifted away , so that the
sky was scattered once more with the incredible lamps of stars. Then the
breeze d ied too and there was no noise save the drip and trick le of water
that ran out of clefts and spilled down, leaf by leaf, to the brown earth of the
island. T he air was cool, moist, and clear; and presently even t he sound of
the water was still. The beast lay huddled on the pale beach and the stains
spread, inch by inch.
The edge of th e lagoon became a streak of phosphorescence which
advanced minut ely , as the grea t wave of the tide flowed. The clear water
mirrored the clear sky and the  angular bright constellations. The line of
phosphorescence bulged about the sand grains and little pebb les; it held
them ea ch in a dimple of tens ion, then suddenly accepted them with an
inaudible syllable and moved on.
Along th e shoreward edge of th e shallows the advancing clearness was
full of strange, m oonbeam-bodied creatures with fiery eyes. He re and there