The greatest ideas are the simplest. Now there was something to be done
they worked with passion. Piggy was so full of delight and  expanding
liberty in  Jack's departure, so fu ll of pride in his contribution to the good of
society , that he helped to fetch  wood. The wood he fetched was close at
hand, a fallen tree on the platfo rm that they did not need for th e assembly ,
yet to the others  the sanctity of the platform had protected even what was
useless t here. Then the twins rea lized they would have a fire near them as a
comfort in the night and this set a few littluns dancing and clapping hands.
The wood was not so dry as the fuel they had used on the m ountain.
Much of  it was damply rotten a nd full of insects that scurried;  logs had to
be lifted  from the soil with care or they crumbled into sodden po wder . More
than this , in order to avoid going deep into the forest the boys worked near
at hand on any fallen wood no matter how tangled with new g rowth. The
skirts of the fo rest and the scar were familiar , near the conch and the
shelters and suf ficiently friendl y in daylight. What they might become in
darkness nobody cared to think. They worked therefore with great ener gy
and chee rfulness, though as time crept by there was a suggestion of panic in
the ener gy and hysteria in the cheerfulness. They built a pyramid of leaves
and twig s, branches and logs, on  the bare sand by the platform. For the first
time on the island, Piggy himself removed his one glass, knelt down and
focused the sun on tinder . Soon there was a ceiling of smoke an d a bush of
yellow flame.
The littl uns who had seen few fires since the first catastrophe became
wildly e xcited. They danced and sang and there was a partyish a ir about the
gathering.
At l ast R alph st opped work and stood up, smudging the sweat from his
face with a dirty forearm.
"W e'll have to have a small fire. This one's too big to keep up."
Piggy sat down carefully on the sand and began to polish his glass.
"W e could experiment. W e cou ld find out how to make a smal l hot fire
and then  put green branches on to make smoke. Some of them leaves must
be better for that than the others."