the gutted pig, watching the fat ooze and burn among the ashes. They would
be intent.
Another figure, an unrecognizab le one, appeared by Robert and gave him
something, then turned and wen t back behind the rock. Robert laid his spear
on th e ro ck beside him and began to gnaw between his raised h ands. So the
feast was beginning and the watchman had been given his portion.
Ralph sa w that for the time being he was safe. He limped away through
the fruit  trees, drawn by the th ought of the poor food yet bitter when he
remembered the feast. Feast today , and then tomorrow ....
He ar gued unconvincingly that they would let him alone, perhaps even
make an  outlaw  of him. But then the fatal unreasoning knowled ge came to
him aga in. The breaking of the  conch and the deaths of Piggy and Simon
lay over  the island like a vapor . These painted savages would go  further and
further . Then there was that in definable connection between himself and
Jack; who therefore would never let him alone; never .
He paused, sun-flecked, holding up a bough, prepared to duck under it. A
spasm of terror set him shaking and he cried aloud.
"No. They're not as bad as that. It was an accident."
He ducked under the bough, ran clumsily , then stopped and listened.
He cam e to the smashed acres  of fruit and ate greedily . He saw two
littluns a nd, not having any idea of his own appearance, wondered why they
screamed and ran.
When he  had eaten he went tow ard the beach. The sunlight wa s slanting
now into  the palms by the wrecked shelter . There was the platform and the
pool. Th e best thing to do was t o ignore this leaden feeling abo ut the heart
and rely  on their common sense, their daylight sanity . Now that the tribe
had eaten, the th ing to do was to try again. And anyway , he c ouldn't stay
here all night in  an empty shelt er by the deserted platform. His flesh crept
and he shivered in the evening s un. No fire; no smoke; no rescue. He turned
and limped away through the forest toward Jack's end of the island.