aside and chose his direction from the trend of the land, he mouthed words
that did not reach the air .
Presently the creepers festooned  the trees less frequently and there was a
scatter o f pearly light from the sky down through the trees. T his was the
backbone of the island, the slightly higher land that lay beneath the
mountain where  the forest was no longer deep jungle. Here there were wide
spaces interspersed with thickets and huge trees and the trend of the ground
led h im up as the forest opened. He pushed on, staggering som etimes with
his wear iness but never stopping. The usual brightness was go ne from his
eyes and he walked with a sort of glum determination like an old man.
A buf fet  of wind made him sta gger and he saw that he was o ut in the
open, on  rock, under a brassy sky . He found his legs were w eak and his
tongue g ave him  pain all the time. When the wind reached the m ountain-top
he c ould see som ething happen, a flicker of blue stuf f against br own clouds.
He push ed hims elf forward and the wind came again, stronger now , cuf fing
the fore st heads  till they ducke d and roared. Simon saw a humped thing
suddenly sit up on the top and look down at him. He hid his face, and toiled
on.
The flies had found the figure too. The life-like movement would scare
them of f  for a m oment so that th ey made a dark cloud round the head. Then
as the blue material of the parachute collapsed the corpulent figure would
bow forward, sighing, and the flies settle once more.
Simon f elt his knees smack the rock. He crawled forward and soon he
understood. The  tangle of lines showed him the mechanics of this parody;
he e xamined the white nasal bones, the teeth, the colors of cor ruption. He
saw how pitilessly the layers of rubber and canvas held together the poor
body that should be rotting awa y . Then the wind blew again and the figure
lifted, bo wed, an d breathed foully at him. Simon knelt on all fours and was
sick till his stomach was empty . Then he took the lines in hi s hands; he
freed them from the rocks and the figure from the wind's indignity .
At l ast he turned away and looked down at the beaches. The fi re by the
platform appeare d to be out, or a t least making no smoke. Further along the
beach, beyond the little river and near a great slab of rock, a th in trickle of