They surrounde d the covert bu t the sow got away with the sting of
another spear in her flank. The trailing butts hindered her and the sharp,
cross-cut points were a torment . She blundered into a tree, forcing a spear
still deeper; and after that any of the hunters could follow her easily by the
drops of  vivid blood. The afternoon wore on, hazy and dreadful with damp
heat; the sow sta ggered her way ahead of them, bleeding and mad, and the
hunters followed, wedded to her in lust, excited by the long chase and the
dropped blood. They could see her now , nearly got up with her , but she
spurted with her last strength an d held ahead of them again. They were just
behind her when she staggered into an open space where bright flowers
grew and butterflies danced round each other and the air was hot and still.
Here, struck down by the heat, the sow fell and the hunte rs hurled
themselves at her . This dreadful eruption from an unknown wor ld made her
frantic; she squealed and bucked  and the air was full of sweat and noise and
blood and terror . Roger ran r ound the heap, prodding with his spear
whenever pigfl esh appeared. Jack was on top of the sow , stabbing
downward with his knife. Roge r found a lodgment for his point and began
to push till he w as leaning with his whole weight. The spear mo ved forward
inch by inch and the terrified squealing became a highpitched sc ream. Then
Jack fou nd the throat and the hot blood spouted over his hand s. The sow
collapsed under them and they were heavy and fulfilled upo n her . The
butterflies still danced, preoccupied in the center of the clearing.
At la st t he immediacy of the kill subsided. The boys drew back,  and Jack
stood up, holding out his hands.
"Look."
He g iggled and f licked them while the boys laughed at his reeki ng palms.
Then Jack grabbed Maurice an d rubbed the stuf f over his cheeks. Roger
began to  withdr aw his spear and boys noticed it for the first time. Robert
stabilized the thing in a phrase which was received uproariously .
"Right up her ass!"
"Did you hear?"