Ralph lik e dogs.  They were twin s, and the eye was shocked and incredulous
at such cheery duplication. The y breathed together , they grinned together ,
they wer e chunky and vital. The y raised wet lips at Ralph, for t hey seemed
provided with not quite enough skin, so that their profiles were blurred and
their mouths pulled open. Piggy bent his flashing glasses to them and could
be heard between the blasts, repeating their names.
"Sam, Eric, Sam, Eric."
Then he  got muddled; the twins shook their heads and pointed at each
other and the crowd laughed.
At last Ralph ceased to blow an d sat there, the conch trailing from one
hand, his head bowed on his knees. As the echoes died away so did the
laughter , and there was silence.
W ithin the diamond haze of th e beach something dark was fumbling
along. R alph saw  it first, and watched till the intentness of his gaze drew all
eyes tha t way . Then the creature  stepped from mirage on to clear sand, and
they saw  that the darkness was not all shadow but mostly cl othing. The
creature was a p arty of boys, ma rching approximately in step in two parallel
lines and dressed in strangely eccentric clothing. Shorts, shirts, and dif ferent
garments they carried in their hands; but each boy wore a square black cap
with a silver bad ge on it. Their bodies, from throat to ankle, wer e hidden by
black clo aks wh ich bore a long silver cross on the left breast and each neck
was finished of f with a hambone frill. The heat of the tropics, the descent,
the search for food, and now this sweaty march along the blazin g beach had
given them the complexions of newly washed plums. The  boy who
controlled them  was dressed in  the same way though his cap badge was
golden. When his party was about ten yards from the platform he shouted
an o rder and the y halted, gasping, sweating, swaying in the fierce light. The
boy him self cam e forward, vaulted on to the platform with his c loak flying,
and peered into what to him was almost complete darkness.
"Where's the man with the trumpet?"
Ralph, sensing his sun-blindness, answered him.