stayed there for two days, talking, singing, and crying, till they thought him
batty an d were faintly amused.  Ever since then he had been p eaked, red-
eyed, and miserable; a littiun who played little and cried often.
The sma ller boy s were known n ow by the generic title of "littluns." The
decrease in size, from Ralph down, was gradual; and though there was a
dubious region inhabited by Sim on and Robert and Maurice, n evertheless
no o ne h ad any dif ficulty in recognizing biguns at one end and li ttluns at the
other . Th e undou bted littluns, those aged about six, led a quite d istinct, and
at th e same time intense, life of their own. They ate most of the day , picking
fruit wh ere they  could reach it and not particular about ripeness and quality .
They were used now to stomach-aches and a sort of chronic diarrhoea. They
suf fered untold terrors in the dark and huddled together for comfort. Apart
from food and sleep, they foun d time for play , aimless and trivial, in the
white sa nd by the bright water . T hey cried for their mothers much less often
than mig ht have been expected; they were very brown, and filthily dirty .
They obeyed the summons of the conch, partly because Ralph blew it, and
he w as b ig enou gh to be a link w ith the adult world of authority ; and partly
because they enjoyed the enter tainment of the assemblies. But otherwise
they seldom bothered with the b iguns and their passionately emotional and
corporate life was their own.
They had built castles in the s and at the bar of the little river . These
castles were about one foot hig h and were decorated with shells, withered
flowers, and interesting stones. Round the castles was a complex of marks,
tracks, w alls, railway lines, that were of significance only if inspected with
the e ye at beach-level. The littluns played here, if not happily a t least with
absorbed attentio n; and often as many as three of them would play the same
game together .
Three were playing here now . Henry was the biggest of them. He was
also a distant re lative of that o ther boy whose mulberry-mark ed face had
not been seen si nce the evening of the great fire; but he was not old enough
to under stand this, and if he had been told that the other boy had  gone home
in an aircraft, he would have accepted the statement without fuss or
disbelief.