and walked into the forest with  an air of purpose. He was a small, skinny
boy , his chin pointed, and his eyes so bright they had deceived  Ralph into
thinking him delightfully gay a nd wicked. The coarse mop of black hair
was lon g and swung down, almost concealing a low , broad forehead. He
wore the remains of shorts and his feet were bare like Jack's. Always
darkish in color , Simon was burned by the sun to a deep tan that glistened
with sweat.
He p icked his w ay up the scar ,  passed the great rock where Ralph had
climbed on the first morning, th en turned of f to his right among the trees.
He w alked with an accustomed tread through the acres of fruit trees, where
the l east ener getic could find an easy if unsatisfying meal. Flower and fruit
grew tog ether o n the same tree  and everywhere was the scent  of ripeness
and the booming of a million be es at pasture. Here the littluns who had run
after him caught up with him. They talked, cried out unintellig ibly , lugged
him tow ard the trees. Then, ami d the roar of bees in the afternoon sunlight,
Simon found for them the fruit they could not reach, pulled of f the choicest
from up  in the f oliage, passed them back down to the endless, outstretched
hands. When he had satisfied them he paused and looked round. The littluns
watched him inscrutably over double handfuls of ripe fruit.
Simon t urned aw ay from them and went where the just perceptible path
led him . Soon high jungle closed in. T all trunks bore unexpected pale
flowers all the way up to the da rk canopy where life went on clamorously .
The air here was dark too, and  the creepers dropped their ropes like the
rigging of foundered ships. His feet left prints in the soft soil and the
creepers shivered throughout their lengths when he bumped them.
He came at last to a place where more sunshine fell. Since they had not
so far to go for light the creepers had woven a great mat that hung at the
side of an open space in the jungle; for here a patch of rock came close to
the surfa ce and would not allow  more than little plants and ferns to grow .
The who le space  was walled with dark aromatic bushes, and was a bowl of
heat and  light. A great tree, fallen across one corner , leaned against the trees
that still  stood and a rapid clim ber flaunted red and yellow sprays right to
the top.