He force d his feet to move until they had carried him out on to  the neck
of land.
He was surrounded on all sides by chasms of empty air . T here was
nowhere to hide, even if one did not have to go on. He paused on the
narrow n eck and  looked down. Soon, in a matter of centuries, the sea would
make an island o f the castle. On  the right hand was the lagoon, troubled by
the open sea; and on the left― Ralph shuddered. The lagoon had protected
them from the Pacific: and for some reason only Jack had gone right down
to th e w ater on the other side. N ow he saw the landsman's view of the swell
and it seemed like the breathing of some stupendous creature. Slowly the
waters s ank among the rocks, revealing pink tables of granite, strange
growths of coral, polyp, and  weed. Down, down, the w aters went,
whispering like the wind among the heads of the forest. There was one flat
rock the re, spread like a table, and the waters sucking down on the four
weedy s ides made them seem like clif fs. Then the sleeping leviathan
breathed out, the waters rose, the weed streamed, and the water boiled over
the table  rock with a roar . There  was no sense of the passage of waves; only
this minute-long fall and rise and fall.
Ralph turned away to the red cl if f. They were waiting behind h im in the
long grass, waiting to see what  he would do. He noticed that t he sweat in
his palm  was cool now; realized  with surprise that he did not really expect
to meet any beast and didn't know what he would do about it if he did.
He saw that he could climb th e clif f but this was not necessary . The
squareness of the rock allowed a sort of plinth round it, so that to the right,
over the lagoon, one could inch along a ledge and turn the corner out of
sight. It was easy going, and soon he was peering round the rock.
Nothing but what you might ex pect: pink, tumbled boulders with guano
layered on them like icing; and a steep slope up to the shattere d rocks that
crowned the bastion.
A sound behind him made him turn. Jack was edging along the ledge.
"Couldn't let you do it on your own."