and he ceased to think of them. He felt with his hands and found cool,
delicate fronds backed against th e thicket. Here then was the night's lair . At
first light he w ould creep into the thicket, squeeze between the twisted
stems, ensconce  himself so deep that only a crawler like himself could
come th rough, a nd that crawler would be jabbed. There he would sit, and
the s earch would pass him by , and the cordon waver on, ululatin g along the
island, and he would be free.
He pull ed himself between the ferns, tunneling in. He laid the stick
beside him, and huddled himself down in the blackness. One must
remember to wake at first light,  in order to diddle the savages―and he did
not kno w how quickly sleep came and hurled him down a d ark interior
slope.
He was awake before his eyes were open, listening to a noise  that was
near . He opened an eye, found the mold an inch or so from his face and his
fingers g ripped i nto it, light filtering between the fronds of fern. He had just
time to realize that the age-long nightmares of falling and death were past
and that the morning was come , when he heard the sound again. It was an
ululation over by the seashore―  and now the next savage answered and the
next. The cry swept by him across the narrow end of the island from sea to
lagoon, like the cry of a flyin g bird. He took no time to consider but
grabbed his sharp stick and wriggled back among the ferns. W ithin seconds
he was worming his way into t he thicket; but not before he had glimpsed
the legs of a savage coming toward him. The ferns were th umped and
beaten a nd he heard legs moving in the long grass. The savage, whoever he
was, ulu lated tw ice; and the cry  was repeated in both direction s, then died
away . Ralph crouched still, tangled in the ferns, and for a time he heard
nothing.
At last he examined the thicket itself. Certainly no one could attack him
here―and moreover he had a stroke of luck. The great rock that had killed
Piggy ha d boun ded into this thi cket and bounced there, right in  the center ,
making a smashed space a few feet in extent each way . When Ralph had
wriggled into this he felt secure, and clever . He sat down caref ully among
the s mashed stems and waited for the hunt to pass. Looking up between the
leaves h e caugh t a glimpse of something red. That must be th e top of the