himself roused a gaudy bird fro m a primitive nest of sticks was the silence
shattered and echoes set ringing  by a harsh cry that seemed to come out of
the abyss of age s. Jack himself shrank at this cry with a hiss of indrawn
breath, and for a  minute became less a hunter than a furtive thi ng, ape-like
among t he tangl e of trees. Then  the trail, the frustration, claime d him again
and he searched the ground avidly . By the trunk of a vast tree th at grew pale
flowers on its gr ey bark he chec ked, closed his eyes, and once more drew in
the warm  air; and this time his b reath came short, there was eve n a passing
pallor in his fa ce, and then th e sur ge of blood again. He passed like a
shadow under the darkness of the tree and crouched, looking down at the
trodden ground at his feet.
The dro ppings were warm. They lay piled among turned earth. They
were olive green, smooth, and they steamed a little. Jack lifted his head and
stared at the inscrutable masses of creeper that lay across the trail. Then he
raised hi s spear and sneaked forward. Beyond the creeper , the trail joined a
pig-run that was wide enough and trodden enough to be a path. The ground
was hard ened by an accustomed tread and as Jack rose to his full height he
heard so mething moving on it. He swung back his right arm and hurled the
spear wi th all his strength. From  the pig-run came the quick, hard patter of
hoofs, a  castanet sound, seductive, maddening―the promise o f meat. He
rushed out of the under growth and snatched up his spear . The pattering of
pig's trotters died away in the distance.
Jack stood there, streaming with sweat, streaked with brown earth,
stained b y all the vicissitudes of  a day's hunting. Swearing, he turned of f the
trail and pushed his way through until the forest opened a little and instead
of b ald trunks supporting a dark roof there were light grey trunks and
crowns of feathery palm. Beyond these was the glitter of the sea and he
could he ar voice s. Ralph was st anding by a contraption of palm  trunks and
leaves, a  rude shelter that faced  the lagoon and seemed very near to falling
down. He did not notice when Jack spoke.
"Got any water?"
Ralph looked up, frowning, from the complication of leaves. H e did not
notice Jack even when he saw him.