The wounded savage moaned again.
What else? What next?
Ralph fastened his hands round the chewed spear and his hair fell.
Someone was muttering, only a few yards away toward the Castle Rock. He
heard a savage s ay "No!" in a shocked voice; and then there was  suppressed
laughter . He squatted back on h is heels and showed his teeth at the wall of
branches. He raise his spear , snarled a little, and waited.
Once more the invisible group sniggered. He heard a curious trickling
sound and then a louder crepita tion as if someone were unwrapping great
sheets o f cellop hane. A stick sn apped and he stifled a cough. Smoke was
seeping through  the branches in  white and yellow wisps, the patch of blue
sky ove rhead turned to the col or of a storm cloud, and then the smoke
billowed round him.
Someone laughed excitedly , and a voice shouted.
"Smoke!"
He w ormed his way through the thicket toward the forest, keeping as far
as p ossible beneath the smoke. Presently he saw open space, and the green
leaves o f the edge of the thicke t. A smallish savage was standi ng between
him and  the rest of the forest, a s avage striped red and white, and carrying a
spear . H e was coughing and sme aring the paint about his eyes with the back
of h is hand as he tried to see through the increasing smoke. Ral ph launched
himself like a ca t; stabbed, snarling, with the spear , and the sava ge doubled
up. There was a shout from beyond the thicket and then Ralph w as running
with the swiftness of fear through the under growth. He came to a pig-run,
followed it for p erhaps a hundred yards, and then swerved of f. Behind him
the u lulation swept across the island once more and a single vo ice shouted
three times. He guessed that was the signal to advance and sped away again,
till his chest wa s like fire. Then  he flung himself down under a bush and
waited for a m oment till his breathing steadied. He passed his tongue
tentatively over  his teeth and lips and heard far of f the ulula tion of the
pursuers.