water an d had to edge along between that and the dark luxuri ance of the
forest. There were little clif fs to be scaled, some to be used as paths, lengthy
traverses where one used hands  as well as feet. Here and there  they could
clamber over wave-wet rock, leaping across clear pools that the tide had
left. They came to a gully that split the narrow foreshore like a defense.
This seemed to have no bottom and they peered awe-stricken into the
gloomy crack where water gur gled. Then the wave came bac k, the gully
boiled before them and spray dashed up to the very creeper so that the boys
were we t and shrieking. They tried the forest but it was thick  and woven
like a bird's nest. In the end they had to jump one by one, waiting till the
water sa nk; and  even so, some of them got a second drenching. After that
the rock s seeme d to be growing impassable so they sat for a time, letting
their rag s dry and watching the clipped outlines of the rollers th at moved so
slowly past the island. They fou nd fruit in a haunt of bright litt le birds that
hovered like insects. Then Ralph said they were going too slowly . He
himself climbed a tree and parted the canopy , and saw the square head of
the mou ntain se eming still a great way of f. Then they tried to hurry along
the rocks and Ro bert cut his kne e quite badly and they had to recognize that
this path must be taken slowly if they were to be safe. So they proceeded
after tha t as if t hey were climbing a dangerous mountain, until the rocks
became an uncompromising clif f, overhung with impossible jungle and
falling sheer into the sea.
Ralph looked at the sun critically .
"Early evening. After tea-time, at any rate."
"I do n't remember this clif f," said Jack, crestfallen, "so this must be the
bit of the coast I missed."
Ralph nodded.
"Let me think."
By now , Ralph had no self-consciousness in public thinking but would
treat the  day's decisions as though he were playing chess. The o nly trouble
was that  he would never be a very good chess player . He tho ught of the