"Ralph―we need meat even if we are hunting the other thing."
"If you mean going the right way , we'll hunt."
They set of f again, the hunters bunched a little by fear of the m entioned
beast, while Jack quested ahead . They went more slowly than Ralph had
bar gained for; yet in a way he was glad to loiter , cradling his  spear . Jack
came up  against some emer gency of his craft and soon the procession
stopped. Ralph leaned against a tree and at once the daydr eams came
swarming up. Jack was in char g e of the hunt and there would be  time to get
to the mountain ― Once, following his father from Chatham to Devonport,
they had lived in a cottage on the edge of the moors. In the succession of
houses t hat Ralph had known, this one stood out with particular clarity
because after that house he had been sent away to school. Mum my had still
been with them and Daddy had come home every day . W ild ponies came to
the ston e wall at the bottom of the garden, and it had snowed. Just behind
the cotta ge there  was a sort of shed and you could lie up there, watching the
flakes sw irl past . Y ou could see the damp spot where each flake died, then
you could mark the first flake th at lay down without melting and watch, the
whole g round tu rn white. Y ou could go indoors when you were cold and
look out of the window , past the bright copper kettle and the plate with the
little blue men.
When y ou went  to bed there was a bowl of cornflakes with sugar and
cream. And the books―they stood on the shelf by the bed, leaning together
with always two or three laid fla t on top because he had not bothered to put
them back properly . They were dog-eared and scratched. There was the
bright, shining one about T opsy and Mopsy that he never read because it
was about two g irls; there was the one about the magician which you read
with a kind of ti ed-down terror , skipping page twenty-seven wi th the awful
picture of the sp ider; there was a  book about people who had dug things up,
Egyptian things; there was The Boy's Book of T rains , The Boy 's Book  of
Ships . V iv idly they ca me before him; he could have reached up and touched
them, could feel the weight and  slow slide with which The Mammoth Book
for Boys  wo uld come o ut and slither down.... Everything was all rig ht;
everything was good-humored and friendly .